feat: filecoin spec (#51)
web3-storage/specs: w3-aggregation.md

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
participant Storefront as 🌐<br/><br/>did:web:web3.storage
    participant Authority as 🌐<br/><br/>did:web:spade.storage

    Storefront->>Authority: invoke `aggregate/deals`
```

## Capabilities

This section describes the capabilities that form the w3 aggregation protocol, along with the details relevant for invoking capabilities with a service provider.

In this document, we will be looking at `spade.storage` as an implementer of the `aggregate` and `deals/*` protocol.

### `aggregate/*`

A Filecoin broker Authority MAY delegate capabilities to any Storefront principal.

> `did:web:spade.storage` delegates `aggregate/*` capabilities to `did:web:web3.storage`

```json
{
  "iss": "did:web:spade.storage",
  "aud": "did:web:web3.storage",
  "att": [{"with": "did:web:spade.storage", "can": "aggregate/*" }],
  "exp": null,
  "sig": "..."
}
```

### `aggregate/submit`

A Storefront principal can invoke a capabilty to submit an aggregate ready for deals.

> `did:web:web3.storage` invokes capability from `did:web:spade.storage`

```json
{
  "iss": "did:web:web3.storage",

>   "aud": "did:web:spade.storage",

Reviewer: I am personally not excited ( because I hate `deal` as a concept in general, and have phased out that language within spade entirely ). However @dkkapur is running the client-facing show, so deferring to him :)

>   "aud": "did:web:spade.storage",

Reviewer 2: What the term used by spade ?

# Terminology

## Roles

There are several roles in the authorization flow:

| Name        | Description |
| ----------- | ----------- |
| Storefront | [Principal] identified by [`did:web`] identifier, representing a storage aggregator like w3up |
| Authority   | [Principal] that represents service provider that executes invoked capabilities |
| Verifier   | Component of the [authority] that performs UCAN validation |

### Storefront

A _Storefront_ is a type of [principal] identified by a [`did:web`] identifier.

A Storefront facilitates data storage services to applications and users, getting the requested data stored into Filecoin deals asynchronously.

### Authority

_Authority_ is a [principal] that executes invoked capabilities.

### Verifier

A Component of the [authority] that performs UCAN validation

# Protocol

## Overview

A Storefront is the entry point for user/application data into web3. It will act on behalf of users to move data around into different storage points. One of the key storage presences may be Filecoin Storage Providers.

### Authorization

> Broker MUST have an authorization mechanism for allowed Storefront principals (e.g. web3.storage). Either by out-of-bound exchange of information or through a well defined API. In other words, broker can authorize invocations from `did:web:web3.storage` by validating signature from did. This way, it allows web3.storage to rotate keys without having too coordinate that with the broker.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Broker MUST have an authorization mechanism for allowed Storefront principals (e.g. web3.storage). Either by out-of-bound exchange of information or through a well defined API. In other words, broker can authorize invocations from `did:web:web3.storage` by validating signature from did. This way, it allows web3.storage to rotate keys without having to coordinate with the broker.
```

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    participant Storefront as 🌐<br/><br/>did:web:web3.storage
    participant Authority as 🌐<br/><br/>did:web:spade.storage

    Storefront->>Authority: invoke `aggregate/offer`
    Note left of Authority: Request offer to be queued
```

### Broker queues the offer

Once broker successfully gets an offer, the offer gets queued for review. A receipt is created to proof the transition of `aggregate/offer` state from `null` into `queued`.

This receipt MUST contain a follow up task in the (`.fx.join` field) that is run when submitted request is processed. It MAY succeed (if aggregate was accepted) or fail (if aggregated was  determined to be invalid). The result of the subsequent task CAN be looked up using its receipt.

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    participant Authority as 🌐<br/><br/>did:web:spade.storage
    participant Storefront as 🌐<br/><br/>did:web:web3.storage

    Storefront->>Authority: invoke `aggregate/offer`
    Note left of Storefront: Queueing offer
    Authority-->>Storefront: receipt issued

> ```

Reviewer 3: This one is confusing because it's very similar to the one above, but the parties are swapped around. Do we need this diagram? Can we just put `Authority-->>Storefront: receipt issued` in the one above?

### Broker reviews and handles the offer

> When a broker pops the offer from the queue, the offer details MUST be retrievable. With the offer details, the broker MAY interact with available Filecoin Storage Providers, in order to establish a previously determined number of deals. Depending on storage providers availability, as well as the content present in the offer, the aggregate MAY be handled or not. A receipt is created to proof the transition of `aggregate/offer` state from `queued` into `accepted` or `denied`.

Reviewer 3: > When a broker pops the offer from the queue, the offer details MUST be retrievable.

"pops" suggests a FILO structure, i.e. not a queue, a stack.

I'm not sure I understand what this means - might need re-wording.

Is the offer status not availabile for querying until it reaches the front of the queue? Oh, you mean the broker should be able to retrieve the details of the aggregate from us?

> MAY interact with available Filecoin Storage Providers

Why is this may? It _will_ interact with SPs to facilitate a deal.

Author: Reworded in https://github.com/web3-storage/specs/pull/51/commits/91e928080484202966556f87d020404fb31035fe

> Oh, you mean the broker should be able to retrieve the details of the aggregate from us?

yes!

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    participant Authority as 🌐<br/><br/>did:web:spade.storage
    participant Storefront as 🌐<br/><br/>did:web:web3.storage

    Note left of Storefront: Review and handle offer async
    Authority-->>Storefront: receipt issued

> ```

Reviewer 3: Can we keep the side the participants are on static i.e. keep web3.storage on the left?

Author: I aligned with the role that was acting in each side of the flow. But no strong opinion, so moving to that

Once offer is accepted broker takes care of arranging and renewing deals.

### Storefront can query state of the aggregate deals

> Storefront users MAY want to check details about deals from the content they previously stored. These deals will change over time as they get renewed. Therefore, Storefront should invoke `aggregate/get` capability to gather information about given aggregate identifier.

Reviewer 3: For me, `aggregate/get` suggests we're retrieving the aggregate data, which is not the case, we're retrieving information _about_ the deals the aggregate is included in.

`aggregate/info` `aggregate/status` or `aggregate/deals` (I'm guessing this one was disapproved already)

Author: everything is a bit overloaded terms. It depends on what we consider an aggregate. If we do not assemble one (is just metadata about one in the new world, given Spade also not assemble it...), I would not expect get to get the assembled thing.

We can align on naming when we can sync and update if needed

Reviewer 2: I agree! Lets separate general review from the naming which we can do in a separately in sync.

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
participant Storefront as 🌐<br/><br/>did:web:web3.storage
    participant Authority as 🌐<br/><br/>did:web:spade.storage

    Storefront->>Authority: invoke `aggregate/get`
```

## Capabilities

This section describes the capabilities that form the w3 aggregation protocol, along with the details relevant for invoking capabilities with a service provider.

In this document, we will be looking at `spade.storage` as an implementer of the `aggregate/*` and `offer/*` protocol.

### `aggregate/offer`

A Storefront principal can invoke a capabilty to submit an aggregate ready for offers.

> `did:web:web3.storage` invokes capability from `did:web:spade.storage`

```json
{
  "iss": "did:web:web3.storage",
  "aud": "did:web:spade.storage",
  "att": [{
    "with": "did:web:web3.storage",
    "can": "aggregate/offer",
    "nb": {
      "offer": {
        "link": "bagy...aggregate",

>         "size": 110101,

Author: data it contains, size of all the CARs together. We can't comment JSON, but I can add a note above

>         "size": 110101,

Reviewer 2: I think it would be go a good idea to write down an IPLD Schema not just examples.

>         "size": 110101,

Author: the schema is below and also includes the offer type

  "commP": "commP...",
  "src": ["https://.../bag(...).car"]
}
```

A receipt will be generated to acknowledge the received request. This receipt MUST contain an [effect](https://github.com/ucan-wg/invocation/#7-effect) with a subsequent task (`.fx.join` field) that is run when submitted aggregate is processed and either succeeds (implying that aggregate was accepted and deals will be arranged) or fail (with `error` describing a problem with an aggregate)

```json
{
  "ran": "bafy...invocation",
  "out": {
    "ok": {
      "status": "queued"
    }
  },
  "fx": {
    "join": { "/": "bafy...dequeue" }
  },
  "meta": {},
  "iss": "did:web:spade.storage",
  "prf": []
}
```

Open questions:

- can we get `commP` of the aggregate with `commP` of every CAR that is part of it?

### `aggregate/get`

A Storefront principal can invoke a capability to get state of an accepted aggregate.

> `did:web:web3.storage` invokes capability from `did:web:spade.storage`

```json
{
  "iss": "did:web:web3.storage",
  "aud": "did:web:spade.storage",
  "att": [{
    "with": "did:web:web3.storage",
    "can": "aggregate/get",
    "nb": {
      "commP": "commP...",
    }
  }],
  "prf": [],
  "sig": "..."
}

> ```

Reviewer 3: What does the return (receipt) for this invocation look like?

Author: Added https://github.com/web3-storage/specs/pull/51/commits/dae9ff404015b8eecfe07e4c9384937444b9494d

It includes array of deals information in that moment. probably we should also add a timestamp there to say this was what was there at this point based on what we talked about yesterday?

### `offer/review`

> When a broker receives an `aggregate/offer` invocation from a Storefront Principal, an [Effect](https://github.com/ucan-wg/invocation/#7-effect) for this submission is created with join task to be performed asynchronously.

Reviewer 3: Not sure I understand this part - is this the delegation that `bafy...dequeue` referrs to in `fx.join`?

Author: yes!

Reviewer 2: Since in last call we decided offer reviews is not really a thing and instead spade just attempts to arrange them and either succeeds or fails I don't think previously suggested `offer/review` still makes sense, probably should be called `offer/arrange` instead ?

```json
{
  "iss": "did:web:spade.storage",
  "aud": "did:web:web3.storage",
  "att": [{
    "with": "did:web:spade.storage",
    "can": "offer/review",
    "nb": {
      "commP": "commP",
    }
  }],
  "prf": [],
  "sig": "..."
}
```

Once this invocation is executed, a receipt is generated with the status of the task updated. Accepted aggregate receipt will provide aggregate status info:

```json
{
  "ran": "bafy...review",
  "out": {
    "ok": {
       "status": "accepted",

>        "link": "bafy...aggregate"

Reviewer 3: Why do we need this field?

Reviewer 2: Yeah for convenience. If we don't have pointer to the aggregate you will not know for which aggregate this receipt is. You would have to first resolve invocation block from `ran` field, and find out the aggregate from it's `nb.link`. 

All of this can be made even more complicated if you don't have necessary blocks locally. Including the link here means you'll know all from the receipt without having to do any resolution.

Reviewer 2: I mentioned it elsewhere, but inline here is probably going to make more sense.

In terms of capabilities it does seem wrong that broker is able to mutate `did:web:web3.storage` resource without been delegated capability to do so. And that is kind of what happens as a side effect of `offer/arrange`.

> Although perhaps we could make an argument that by delegating `aggregate/offer` you do delegate ability to also update it's state.

I think it would be more cleaner if instead `offer/arrange` produced a receipt which in success case would include delegation to `offer/*` capabilities to the storefront which would allow it then to query for the state using `offer/get` capability. With such arrangement it would make sense that spade can update own state and that storefront will be able to query it because it was delegated capabilities to do so.

As an added benefit it would also make it impossible to query for the status until aggregate was accepted, because storefront simple will not have capability to do so.

The downside of going this route is that storefront would need to maintain delegations for the accepted aggregates to query the state. However we could probably find a way around this by adding additional `nb.storefront` field into `offer/*` capabilities so that one delegation could cover all of them.

    }
  },
  "fx": {
    "fork": []
  },
  "meta": {},
  "iss": "did:web:spade.storage",
  "prf": []
}
```

If offered aggregate is invalid, details on failing commPs are also reported:

```json
{
  "ran": "bafy...invocation",
  "out": {
    "error": {

>       "status": "denied",

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
      "status": "rejected",
```

      "cause": [{
        "commP": "commP",
        "reason": "reasonCode",
      }],
    },
  },
  "fx": {
    "fork": []
  },
  "meta": {},
  "iss": "did:web:spade.storage",
  "prf": []
}
```

### Schema

```ipldsch
type Aggregate =
  { "status": "queued", link: Link } |
  { "status": "accepted", link: Link } |

>   { "status": "denied", link: Link }

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  { "status": "rejected", link: Link }
```

When a Storefront has enough content to fulfill an aggregate (each broker MAY have different requirements), a Filecoin deal for an aggregate SHALL be requested by a `aggregate/offer` invocations. Deal negotiations with Filecoin Storage Providers will be handled out off band. Broker SHOULD generate a receipt to acknowledge the received request.

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    participant Storefront as 🌐<br/><br/>did:web:web3.storage
    participant Authority as 🌐<br/><br/>did:web:spade.storage

    Storefront->>Authority: invoke `aggregate/offer`
    Note left of Authority: Request offer to be queued
    Authority-->>Storefront: receipt issued
```

### Broker queues the offer

Once broker successfully gets an offer, the offer gets queued for review. A receipt is created to proof the transition of `aggregate/offer` state from `null` into `queued`.

This receipt MUST contain a follow up task in the (`.fx.join` field) that is run when submitted request is processed. It MAY succeed (if aggregate was accepted) or fail (if aggregated was determined to be invalid). The result of the subsequent task CAN be looked up using its receipt.

### Broker reviews and handles the offer

> When a broker dequeues the offer from the queue, the offer details MUST be retrievable. With the offer details, the broker will interact with available Filecoin Storage Providers, in order to establish a previously determined number of deals. Depending on storage providers availability, as well as the content present in the offer, the aggregate MAY be handled or not. A receipt is created to proof the transition of `aggregate/offer` state from `queued` into `accepted` or `denied`.

Author: > It's not clear to me what this tries to convey

rephrased

> This is also confusing, because I don't think we mentioned how this number is determined.

added context that it is "out of band". It is something agreed with Spade out of the protocol.

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    participant Storefront as 🌐<br/><br/>did:web:web3.storage
    participant Authority as 🌐<br/><br/>did:web:spade.storage

    Note right of Storefront: Review and handle offer async
    Authority-->>Storefront: receipt issued
```

> Once offer is accepted broker takes care of arranging and renewing deals.

Author: > we should rephrase this so it does not leave a wrong impression.

Good point, by accepted I mean `accepted` state. But I will make it more clear

### Storefront can query state of the aggregate deals

Storefront users MAY want to check details about deals from the content they previously stored. These deals will change over time as they get renewed. Therefore, Storefront should invoke `aggregate/get` capability to gather information about given aggregate identifier.

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
participant Storefront as 🌐<br/><br/>did:web:web3.storage
    participant Authority as 🌐<br/><br/>did:web:spade.storage

    Storefront->>Authority: invoke `aggregate/get`
```

## Capabilities

This section describes the capabilities that form the w3 aggregation protocol, along with the details relevant for invoking capabilities with a service provider.

In this document, we will be looking at `spade.storage` as an implementer of the `aggregate/*` and `offer/*` protocol.

### `aggregate/offer`

> A Storefront principal can invoke a capabilty to submit an aggregate ready for offers.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A Storefront principal can invoke a capabilty to submit an aggregate ready for offers.

```iplsch
type AggregateOffer union {
  Aggregate  "aggregate/offer"
} representation inline {
  discriminantKey "can"
}

type Offer struct {
  with   StorefrontDID
  offer  { CARLink: OfferDetails }
}

type struct OfferDetails {
    size        Int
    commP       Bytes
    src         [URL]
}

type CARLink string
```

I think adding a schema here would be very helpful. Note that I have inlined details as per our last call. Also instead of a list I've used map keyed by CAR cid, which I think is better as it's more deterministic (agnostic of order).

> `did:web:web3.storage` invokes capability from `did:web:spade.storage`

```json
{
  "iss": "did:web:web3.storage",
  "aud": "did:web:spade.storage",
  "att": [{
    "with": "did:web:web3.storage",
    "can": "aggregate/offer",
    "nb": {
      "offer": {
        "link": "bafy...aggregate",
        "size": 110101,
        "src": ["https://w3s.link/ipfs/bafy...aggregate"]
      }
    }
  }],
  "prf": [],
  "sig": "..."
}
```

This capability is invoked to submit a request to a broker service when an aggregate is ready for a Filecoin deal. The `nb.offer.link` is the DAG-CBOR CID that refers to a "Ferry" aggregate. It encodes a dag-cbor block with an array of entries representing all the CAR files to include in the aggregate. Its format is:

```json
[
  {
    "link": "bag...",
    "size": 110101,
    "commP": "commP...",
    "src": ["https://.../bag(...).car"]
  } 
]

> ```

Reviewer 2: I was under impression that in the last call we decided we don't want to link to the CAR containing these entries but rather have `offer` field contain these entries inline instead

A receipt will be generated to acknowledge the received request. This receipt MUST contain an [effect](https://github.com/ucan-wg/invocation/#7-effect) with a subsequent task (`.fx.join` field) that is run when submitted aggregate is processed and either succeeds (implying that aggregate was accepted and deals will be arranged) or fail (with `error` describing a problem with an aggregate)

```json
{
  "ran": "bafy...invocation",
  "out": {
    "ok": {
      "status": "queued"
    }
  },
  "fx": {
    "join": { "/": "bafy...dequeue" }
  },
  "meta": {},
  "iss": "did:web:spade.storage",
  "prf": []
}
```

### `aggregate/get`

A Storefront principal can invoke a capability to get state of an accepted aggregate.

> `did:web:web3.storage` invokes capability from `did:web:spade.storage`

```json
{
  "iss": "did:web:web3.storage",
  "aud": "did:web:spade.storage",
  "att": [{
    "with": "did:web:web3.storage",
    "can": "aggregate/get",
    "nb": {
      "link": "bafy...aggregate",
    }
  }],
  "prf": [],
  "sig": "..."
}
```

> Once this invocation is executed, a receipt is generated with the aggregate information:

Reviewer 2: I think we need to consider two things here:

1. How does cashing affects this ? Ideally invocations are idempotent meaning same instruction should get same result (even if state has changed in the meantime) and `nnc` supposed to be utilized to cache miss. If we do not want to deal with caching we should specify additional field like current time and request that it be set to e.g. latest drand or a wall clock, that way out dated responses are less surprising, if you request state for old state that has not been computed prior you get an error saying it can not be computed, if we have it cached than response is for that time frame.

1. We should specify what happens if you request deal info for the aggregate that is in `queued` state.

Reviewer 2: That is reasonable, lets just add sentence to state that.

```json
{
  "ran": "bafy...get",
  "out": {
    "ok": {

>       "deals": [

Reviewer 2: I would personally use map keyed by `dealId` so that it's order agnostic.

        }
      ]
    },
  },
  "fx": {
    "fork": []
  },
  "meta": {},
  "iss": "did:web:spade.storage",
  "prf": []
}
```

### `offer/review`

When a broker receives an `aggregate/offer` invocation from a Storefront Principal, an [Effect](https://github.com/ucan-wg/invocation/#7-effect) for this submission is created with join task to be performed asynchronously.

```json
{
  "iss": "did:web:spade.storage",
  "aud": "did:web:web3.storage",
  "att": [{
    "with": "did:web:spade.storage",
    "can": "offer/review",
    "nb": {
      "link": "bafy...aggregate",
    }
  }],
  "prf": [],
  "sig": "..."
}
```

Once this invocation is executed, a receipt is generated with the status of the task updated. Accepted aggregate receipt will provide aggregate status info:

```json
{
  "ran": "bafy...review",
  "out": {
    "ok": {
       "status": "accepted",
       "link": "bafy...aggregate"
    }
  },
  "fx": {
    "fork": []
  },
  "meta": {},
  "iss": "did:web:spade.storage",
  "prf": []
}
```

If offered aggregate is invalid, details on failing commPs are also reported:

```json
{
  "ran": "bafy...invocation",
  "out": {
    "error": {

>       "status": "rejected",

Reviewer 2: I wonder if we need `status` field at all since `ok` / `error` kind of tell us everything we need to know already.

      "link": "bafy...aggregate",

>       "cause": [{

Reviewer 2: I think I'd use map keyed by car CID here as well.

Author: you mean `commP`?

Reviewer 2: No I meant car CID, but maybe that is the mistake. Probably should be keyed by whatever we'll key the input to the `aggregate/offer`

        "commP": "commP",
        "reason": "reasonCode",
      }],
    },
  },
  "fx": {
    "fork": []
  },
  "meta": {},
  "iss": "did:web:spade.storage",
  "prf": []
}
```

### Schema

```ipldsch

> type Aggregate =
>   { "status": "queued", link: Link } |
>   { "status": "accepted", link: Link } |
>   { "status": "rejected", link: Link }

Reviewer 2: This is not a valid IPLD schema syntax, following is:

```suggestion
type Aggregate union {
  | AggregateInfo "queued"
  | AggregateInfo "status"
  | AggregateInfo "rejected"
} representation inline {
  discriminantKey "status"
}

type AggregateInfo struct {
  link: Link
}
```

Reviewer 2: That said I think using [keyed representation](https://ipld.io/docs/schemas/features/representation-strategies/#union-keyed-representation) is more idiomatic so we may want to use following instead:

```suggestion
type Aggregate union {
  | Link "queued"
  | Link "status"
  | Link "rejected"
} representation keyed
```

  } 
]
```

A `src` with URLs to fetch the aggregate offer is provided. In addition, the total `size` of every CAR within it is provided, both for convenience and consistency with the dag-cbor blocks.

A receipt will be generated to acknowledge the received request. This receipt MUST contain an [effect](https://github.com/ucan-wg/invocation/#7-effect) with a subsequent task (`.fx.join` field) that is run when submitted aggregate is processed and either succeeds (implying that aggregate was accepted and deals will be arranged) or fail (with `error` describing a problem with an aggregate)

```json
{
  "ran": "bafy...invocation",
  "out": {
    "ok": {
      "status": "queued"
    }
  },
  "fx": {
    "join": { "/": "bafy...dequeue" }
  },
  "meta": {},
  "iss": "did:web:spade.storage",
  "prf": []
}
```

### `aggregate/get`

A Storefront principal can invoke a capability to get state of a previously accepted aggregate.

> `did:web:web3.storage` invokes capability from `did:web:spade.storage`

```json
{
  "iss": "did:web:web3.storage",
  "aud": "did:web:spade.storage",
  "att": [{
    "with": "did:web:web3.storage",
    "can": "aggregate/get",
    "nb": {

>       "link": "bafy...aggregate",

Reviewer 2: We no longer have CID for the aggregate since we started inlining, and I'm not sure if deriving CID from the `nb.offer` to ask it's status is still making sense. Yet I do like deterministic identifier as opposed to made made up ones.

Author: This `bafy...aggregate` in here would be the CID of the CBOR block where we inline offer details. Maybe the issue is using the term aggregate, should we set `bafy.....offer` instead?

Author: ok wait, by your suggestion above now looks like we are not aligned in this. So, from my understanding of other meeting we would like to have all CARs to be part of the offer encoded in a single CBOR block, instead of within a CAR file with a block per entry.

With the above in mind, I would expect us to have a list with metadata of CARs (commP, cid, size), which would be encoded with DAG CBOR. Our service has an endpoint where this information can be fetched by the CID of the DAG CBOR.

In protocol: 

```
"nb": {
      "offer": {
        "link": "bafy...aggregate",
        "size": 110101,
        "src": ["https://w3s.link/ipfs/bafy...aggregate"]
      }
    }
```

`bafy...aggregate` would be the CID of the block which has information of all the CARs that are part of the offer. (perhaps we should call it `bafy...offer` to avoid confusion)

From [comment](https://github.com/web3-storage/specs/pull/51#discussion_r1163667443) it looks like @Gozala would be expected different approach where we just inline directly in `nb` the offer content (map with CID of each CAR to be included). The problem with that is that we do not have an identifier for the offer. We can derive it by calculating a CID for `nb`, but in my opinion that adds extra complexity. Moreover, offer content might be 10.000s of CAR files, which I would like to avoid bloating invocations size that go into the stream.

Author: Adding what I added in async convo:

in short, question here is how to represent offer sent from w3filecoin pipeline to spade-proxy in the UCAN protocol.
Offer contains the information for an aggregate of CAR files to be created. i.e a list of metadata of each CAR to be included (cid, commP, size, sourceUrl)

There are two alternatives
Encode offer with DAG CBOR, and provide in the UCAN capability invocation the cid for the offer, together with offer total size and sourceUrl
Inline in UCAN capability invocation metadata of all CAR files to be included

Expanding a bit, option 1 would look like:
"nb": {
  "offer": {
    "link": "bafy...offer",
    "size": 110101,
    "src": ["https://filecoin.web3.storage/bafy...offer"]
    }
}

While option 2 would look like

"nb": {
  "offer": {
      "bafy...car0": {
	       "size": 110101,
	        "commP": { "/": { "bytes": "7aEDQ...ZQQ" } },
	        "src": ["https://w3s.link/ipfs/bag...car0"]
      },
      "bafy...car1": {
	       "size": 110101,
	        "commP": { "/": { "bytes": "7aEDQ...ZQQ" } },
	        "src": ["https://w3s.link/ipfs/bag...car1"]
      }
      ...
  }
}

In option 1, we would get block that would have format of option 2.

With option 2 we can derive a CID as an identifier, by getting a CID for the nb object. While in option 1 the identifier CID is explicit

    }
  }],
  "prf": [],
  "sig": "..."
}
```

Once this invocation is executed, a receipt is generated with the aggregate information:

```json
{
  "ran": "bafy...get",
  "out": {
    "ok": {
      "deals": {
        "111": {
          "storageProvider": "f07...",
          "status": "Active",
          "pieceCid": "bag...",
          "dataCid": "bafy...",
          "dataModelSelector": "Links/...",
          "activation": "2023-04-13T01:58:00+00:00",
          "expiration": "2024-09-05T01:58:00+00:00",
          "created": "2023-04-11T17:57:30.522198+00:00",
          "updated": "2024-04-12T03:42:26.928993+00:00"
        }
      }
    },
  },
  "fx": {
    "fork": []
  },
  "meta": {},
  "iss": "did:web:spade.storage",
  "prf": []
}
```

> ### `offer/arrange`

Reviewer 2: I think moving this section after `aggregate/offer` might make it easier to follow the flow, although interleaving `aggregate/` and `offer/` could make it confusing in a different way.

Perhaps a sentence and a link to this section after `aggregate/offer` would be a good compromise.

Author: https://github.com/web3-storage/specs/pull/51/commits/ec12c091359ed7c186aa97cfb1aba961e714cbc5

```

> `did:web:web3.storage` invokes capability from `did:web:spade.storage`

```json
{
  "iss": "did:web:web3.storage",
  "aud": "did:web:spade.storage",
  "att": [{
    "with": "did:web:spade.storage",
    "can": "aggregate/offer",
    "nb": {
      "offer": { "/": "bafy...many-cars" }, /* dag-cbor CID */
      "commitmentProof": { "/": "commitment...cars-proof" } /* commitment proof */
    }
  }],
  "prf": [],
  "sig": "..."
}
```

Invoking `aggregate/offer` capability submits an offer to a broker service to arrange a Filecoin deals. The `nb.offer` represents a "Ferry" aggregate offer that is ready for a Filecoin deal. Its value is the DAG-CBOR CID that refers to a "Ferry" offer. It encodes a dag-cbor block with an array of entries representing all the CAR files to include in the aggregated deal. This block MUST be included in CAR file that transports the invocation. Its format is:

```json
/* decoded offers block as OfferDetails type */
[ {
    "link": { "/": "bag...file0" }, /* CAR CID */
    "size": 110101,
    "commitmentProof": { "/": "commitment...car0" }, /* COMMP CID */
    "src": ["https://w3s.link/ipfs/bag...file0"]
  },
  {
    /* ... */
  }
]
```

> Each entry of the decoded offers block, has all the necessary information for a Storage Provider to fetch and store a CAR file. The `link` field has the CAR CID, while the `commitmentProof` field has the required `proof` bytes by Storage Providers (for example, `commP`). The `src` field of each piece MUST be set to a (alphabetically sorted) list of URLs from which it can be fetched. The `size` field MUST be set to the byte size of the CAR file.

Reviewer 3: Do we want to specify that the `src` field is optional (allowing it to be provided when the deal is signed)?

> Broker MUST issue a signed receipt to acknowledge the received request. Issued receipt MUST contain an [effect](https://github.com/ucan-wg/invocation/#7-effect) with a subsequent task (`.fx.join` field) that is run when submitted aggregate is processed and either succeeds (implying that aggregate was accepted and deals will be arranged) or fail (with `error` describing a problem with an aggregate).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Broker MUST issue a signed receipt to acknowledge the received request. Issued receipt MUST contain an [effect](https://github.com/ucan-wg/invocation/#7-effect) with a subsequent task (`.fx.join` field) that is run when submitted aggregate is processed and either succeeds (implying that aggregate was accepted and deals will be arranged) or fail (with `error` describing a problem with the aggregate).
```

# CAR Aggregation Protocol

![status:wip](https://img.shields.io/badge/status-wip-orange.svg?style=flat-square)

## Editors

- [Vasco Santos], [Protocol Labs]
- [Irakli Gozalishvili], [Protocol Labs]
- [Alan Shaw], [Protocol Labs]

## Authors

- [Vasco Santos], [Protocol Labs]
- [Irakli Gozalishvili], [Protocol Labs]
- [Alan Shaw], [Protocol Labs]

# Abstract

This spec describes a [UCAN] protocol allowing an implementer to receive an aggregate of CAR files for inclusion in a Filecoin deal.

## Language

The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT", "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in [RFC2119](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc2119).

# Terminology

## Roles

There are several roles in the authorization flow:

| Name        | Description |
| ----------- | ----------- |
| Storefront | [Principal] identified by [`did:web`] identifier, representing a storage aggregator like w3up |

> | Authority   | [Principal] that represents service provider that executes invoked capabilities |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| Authority   | [Principal] that represents the service provider that executes invoked capabilities |
```

Reviewer 3: Is this the "Broker" mentioned below?

Author: yes

| Verifier   | Component of the [authority] that performs UCAN validation |

### Storefront

A _Storefront_ is a type of [principal] identified by a [`did:web`] identifier.

A Storefront facilitates data storage services to applications and users, getting the requested data stored into Filecoin deals asynchronously.

### Authority

_Authority_ is a [principal] that executes invoked capabilities.

### Verifier

A Component of the [authority] that performs UCAN validation

# Protocol

## Overview

A Storefront is the entry point for user/application data into web3. It will act on behalf of users to move data around into different storage points. One of the key storage presences may be Filecoin Storage Providers.

### Authorization

> Broker MUST have an authorization mechanism for allowed Storefront principals (e.g. web3.storage). Either by out-of-band exchange of information or through a well defined API. In other words, a broker can authorize invocations from `did:web:web3.storage` by validating the signature is from the DID. This way, it allows web3.storage to rotate keys and/or re-delegate access without having to coordinate with the broker.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Broker MUST have an authorization mechanism for allowed Storefront principals (e.g. web3.storage). Either by out-of-band exchange of information or through a well defined API. For example, a broker can authorize invocations from `did:web:web3.storage` by validating the signature is from the DID. This way, it allows web3.storage to rotate keys and/or re-delegate access without having to coordinate with the broker.
```

]
```

> Each entry of the decoded offers block, has all the necessary information for a Storage Provider to fetch and store a CAR file. The `link` field has the CAR CID, while the `commitmentProof` field has the required `proof` bytes by Storage Providers (for example, `commP`). The `size` field MUST be set to the byte size of the CAR file. The `src` field of each piece MUST be set to a (alphabetically sorted) list of URLs from which it can be fetched. Note that `src` field is optional and can be provided in a different part of the flow such as when deal is signed or through a previously agreed API.

Reviewer: Hey folks, this is concerning. The `byte`/`payload` size of the CAR file is not something ♠️ cares about nor can validate in any shape or form. Let's remove this and other `payload size` mentions from the spec 😅

Author: @ribasushi good callout. It is true that Spade does not care about this and won't validate. 

We can validate this in our side if we think that is important (perform HEAD requests to the src URLs). Main goal of having the size in an invocation is that it allows us to track metrics for data that we are requesting to Spade over time. All our metrics are being built around the information within invocations. 

With that in mind, is there any strong opinion against keeping size?

Reviewer: You can keep it on your end, but there is very strong desire on the side of ♠️ to never receive/parse/store this information, and thus never be able to return it back to you on request.

So having something as a `MUST` when on my end I have `MUST DISCARD` is... odd ;)

Author: yeah, spade side won't need to do anything at it, even at the `spade-proxy` side. Just our UCAN Stream log processor will inspect these UCAN invocations and compute metrics over time from them.
